# New Hope - Planet

New Hope is a recently colonized frontier world at the other end of a
Slingshot from it's more vastly colonized brother, Quorat.

New Hope is a mostly ocean world, with no large continents and sporting only
a small settlement located in a small archipelago called Dantari. Dantari,
named for the captain of the first scout to visit New Hope, hosts the 
typical wares for a frontier world: city hall; small inn; brothel; things of
that nature.

New Hope is famous for only one thing, the gems found at the bottom of the
vast ocean network. Hopian Gems have recently found a place as the newest
luxury item for the Quoratian upper class, and have started spreading to
other neighboring systems (neighboring through Slingshot).

## Dantari

Dantari is a small settlement located in the Dantari Archipelago. The locals
generally stick to themselves, having selected their new homes more for
relaxation than work. Datari hosts a larger than average percentage of 
retirees, hoping to spend the last of their days not on the overpopulated
Quorat.

The working citizens of Dantari are unsure of their feelings towards the
recent influx of retirees. Most continue their business as they normally
would, considering the retirees tourists. Some entrepreneurs have been
attempting to make their planet all the more welcoming to the influx of
retirees, while others are doing the best they can to both sabotage the
upstarts and drive out the new arrivals.

## Hopian Gems

Hopian Gems come in a variety of colors and are harvested by the small band
of enterprising individuals hoping to make a fortune. These individuals have
to purchase specialized diving equipment to make their way to the ocean
floor, further driving up the price of the gems.

## Pirates

Because New Hopes only export is their Hopian Gems, a band of pirates has
sprung up on the edge of the sector, near the Slingshot. The pirates tend to
keep their distance from Dantari itself (because of Dantari's railgun 
installations), and generally stay away from New Hope, they also tend not to
disturb those exiting from the Slingshot. They instead pick off transports 
attempting to leave the system, hoping to find both a weak ship and a haul
of Hopian Gems.